#summary How get it to work
#labels Featured,Phase-Deploy
#sidebar TableOfContents

  * [Instruction_for_Linux Instruction for Linux]
  * [Instruction_for_Windows Instruction for Windows]

= Instruction for Linux  =

== Introduction ==

To compile sources you will need linux tools such as gcc, svn, autoconf, automake, libtool, bison, yacc, flex, GTK+, GLib, libpcap.


== Details ==

At first you need to download Wireshark sources. You can get it by:
{{{
wget http://wiresharkdownloads.riverbed.com/wireshark/src/wireshark-1.6.0.tar.bz2
}}}

Next unpack downloaded file.
{{{
tar -xvjf wireshark-1.6.0.tar.bz2
}}}

Now you have to get XMPP dissector sources.
{{{
svn checkout http://xmpp-dissector.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/ wireshark-1.6.0 --force
}}}

If you have all sources, you have to patch make files. It will allow you to compile XMPP dissector sources.
{{{
cd wireshark-1.6.0
patch -p0 -i wireshark_config.patch
}}}

Next you have to run
{{{
./autogen.sh
./configure --prefix=/your-path/wireshark-bin
make && make install
}}}

If errors didn't occur, Wireshark is built correctly and you can use it by
{{{
/your-path/wireshark-bin/bin/wireshark
}}}

= Instruction for Windows  =

== Introduction ==

To compile sources you need tools such as Visual C++ compiler, subversion client, Cygwin, Python interpreter, program to unpack tar.bz2 archive.


== Details ==

At first you should download and install following tools:
 * Visual C++ 2010 Express - http://www.microsoft.com/visualstudio/en-us/products/2010-editions/visual-cpp-express
 * subversion client - http://www.sliksvn.com/en/download
 * patch tool - http://gnuwin32.sourceforge.net/downlinks/patch.php
 * Python - http://www.python.org/download/releases/2.7.2/
 * Cygwin - http://cygwin.com/setup.exe - during the installation from "Select Package" page choose following packages: Archive/unzip, Devel/bison, Devel/flex, Interpreters/perl, Web/wget

Next download and unpack Wireshark's [http://wiresharkdownloads.riverbed.com/wireshark/src/wireshark-1.6.1.tar.bz2 sources].

Now download sources of XMPP dissector and patch required files. All commands must be call from command line.
{{{
cd wireshark-1.6.1
svn co http://xmpp-dissector.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/ . --force
patch -p0 -i wireshark_config.patch --binary
}}}

If command patch isn't recognized then
{{{
Path=%Path%;C:\Program Files\GnuWin32\bin #this is my path to the patch tool
patch -p0 -i wireshark_config.patch --binary
}}}

Next edit wireshark-1.6.1\config.nmake file. Uncomment 128th line. It should looks like:
{{{
# "Microsoft Visual C++ 2010 Express Edition"
# Visual C++ 10.0, _MSC_VER 1600, msvcr100.dll
MSVC_VARIANT=MSVC2010EE
}}}

Now you can compile sources
{{{
cd wireshark-1.6.1
C:\Program Files\Microsoft Visual Studio 10.0\VC\bin\vcvars32.bat
Nmake -f Makefile.nmake setup
Nmake -f Makefile.nmake all
}}}

If you get:
{{{
config.nmake(951) : fatal error U1050: Can't find C:\wireshark-win32-libs-1.6\vcredist_x86.exe. Have you downloaded it from Microsoft? See the developer's guide section "C-Runtime "Redistributable" files" for details how to get it
}}}
you should download this [http://www.microsoft.com/download/en/confirmation.aspx?id=5555 file] and copy it to the C:\wireshark-win32-libs-1.6 directory.

All binaries you can find in the wireshark-1.6.1\wireshark-gtk2 directory.